---
title: "Dragos CTF 2025 thoughts"
date: 2025-11-2
---

The Dragos CTF 2025 was active from Wednesday to Friday last week; it was designed to be focused on OT. It was my 3rd live CTF and like the others it was difficult and fun and frustrating. I went in hoping I might make it into the top 200 as my stretch goal, but anywhere in the 200s as an achievable goal. My final standing was #316 out of 1058 teams. If I had been able to solve 1 more challenge I would have cracked the 200 range.

It looks like the problems where classified into different point ranges: 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000. The flow of the CTF was that the challenges would take you through an attack path from IT into OT environments. By the end of the event I faced 600 point challenges only and I was making slow progress on 2 of them. However only 1 of them was in a more OT-like context. 

I knew what I had to do for those 2 but was just slow on my execution as I researched why my attempts at making progress were unsuccessful. It was a small comfort that when I chose to use some hints they were steps I had already taken, so at least my thinking was in line with getting the solution. However as a result those hints didn't advance me the way I had hoped they would.

Extra hints were available if you asked the staff in Discord, but with a high number of requests it took some time to get a question answered.

And BIG BIG props to the Dragos folks that staffed the event. It looks like they were pulling double duty: they were still doing their work for Dragos *while* they managed the CTF. I really hope they got a day off or some comp time because that sounds like a heavy load.

So what slowed me down at the end? Incomplete knowledge of tools, inefficient parsing of a lot of data, and difficulty understanding how hex editing changes the offsets and therefore the proper reading of data. That I was even able to name my difficulties and try to actively solve them during the CTF is a good step for me. As hard as it was I liked it. 

I know MetaCTF has a monthly live event but it unfortunately happens while I'm working. I've only been able to participate on rare days off. But doing as well as I did has shown me that my progress on MetaCTF's and Blue Team Labs Online's cyber ranges is giving good results. So I'll be planning to set aside some time for next year's Dragos event, especially since they acknowledged the feedback that participants would like to access OT challenges earlier in the event.
